At the 2020 annual meeting,
we announced an exciting new video project,
The Good News According to Jesus.
Brother Anthony Morris made
the following encouraging statement.
Will there be challenges?
Oh yeah, guaranteed.
But if Jehovah wants something done,
that’s what happens.
How true those words have proven to be!
To date,
the largest feature drama
Audio/Video Services had produced
was a little over 100 minutes in length.
The Good News According to Jesus
spans nearly 1,000 minutes of content!
We are happy to update you
on this exciting project
and share different ways Jehovah
has helped us to overcome various challenges.
Brothers and sisters already serving
at the Australasia branch were key
to helping us get the facilities ready.
How did they handle this special assignment,
especially during the pandemic?
We were all very excited,
but as the scope
of this project became clear,
there were times when we wondered how
our small publisher base
of around 68,000
would be able to fully support
this large undertaking.
We’re a small department,
and it’s a small branch that we’re at.
And all of a sudden,
we had this project highlighted
that was three times our normal workload.
Right after we received approval
for the project, the branch territory
experienced terrible bushfires
raging right throughout the country.
Straight after this were floods.
So, many of our brothers
experienced double disasters.
As we then started to recover from this
and build momentum to start the project,
the COVID-19 pandemic began.
All of the deliveries
of construction materials
coming into the branch
had to be quarantined
(all of the bulk supplies
that the Construction Department was using).
And so that meant there was a time period
for those things to be unavailable for use.
And then the logistics
of (once all those bulk supplies
came out of quarantine)
then moving them to where they’re needed
on the site
when new deliveries
are coming in and managing
that safely
with the COVID-19 risks
and the risks of interaction
with the delivery drivers and the contractors
—it was complicated
and very time-consuming for all involved.
We needed help from our brothers
and sisters outside of Bethel.
So we put the call out,
and they came from all over
the branch territory to help.
Many of them traveled days on rough
and rugged roads
to come and help us.
When they arrived,
they spent a time in quarantine,
and then they were able to come
and help us safely on-site.
There were specific items
needed for the project.
So we asked the brothers and sisters
to help to see where or how
we could obtain them.
It was so heartwarming
to see all the responses flooding in.
Within a short amount of time,
we had received offers
for donations or loans
for much of the heavy machinery
or large equipment we needed
and even things like plants for landscaping.
So we brought in a number
of temporary workers,
and a number of remote workers
as well were added to the team.
And the Branch Committee
made available a large car parking area
so that we could
quarantine off all of the deliveries
and handle those things safely
and in line with the guidelines.
So at the beginning of the project,
the number was about 200 people
in the family,
and that quickly grew to around 500.
And while we have a beautiful kitchen
here to serve food from,
it wasn’t really designed
for 500 meals each day.
The Branch Committee
as well as our various departments,
although they had
a heavy workload themselves,
were able to extend a helping hand.
Where we lost commuters,
we gained some workers
from various departments
who helped us in various tasks
within Food Service.
So it was clear to everybody
in the department and at the branch
that it really needed to be a team effort,
and everybody went above and beyond
to make this work.
But that only takes you so far.
Jehovah’s blessing on the arrangements,
the qualities that he helps us to show,
the motivation that he helps us to have
to overcome those challenges
and to take on things that really
are beyond what we can normally cope with
—seeing that particularly
as we look back on a number
of those challenges
and how they’ve been overcome—
you see Jehovah’s involvement day to day.
A brother had a trailer
that was going to be donated to the project,
but he didn’t have the funds
to pay for the freight.
At the very same time,
a sister contacted the branch
and wanted to donate specifically
to the project.
The amount she donated
was the amount that was needed
to cover the freight
to bring the trailer to Bethel.
One brother made a 30-hour
round-trip to deliver
a large quantity of goods
he manufactured for us.
He made this trip, not once or twice,
but multiple times,
even planning the work
around two surgeries he had to have.
A number of trucks were required
to freight the goods,
so members of his family and congregation
shared in the driving
while local brothers extended hospitality.
I’m very impressed
with the level of appreciation
and the sense of gratitude
that permeates the family.
And seeing that is
a real boost for us and a real blessing.
We feel very appreciative for everyone
who’s been able to help on this project,
and we recognize the personal
and collective sacrifices
that have been made.
And those who have been able
to come in and help us on the project
tell us how thankful they are
to have had a share in the project.
Only Jehovah can create
a situation like this.
Jehovah always finds a way
to help us do his will,
often providing solutions
we never thought possible.
In addition to preparing
the Australasia facility for the project,
much work has been done
with script development, casting,
and location scouting.
How has this progressed?
We recognized that there
would be many needed adjustments
to the branch there
as far as facilities are concerned.
We knew that there would be the need
for many volunteers to be involved
in the project,
and we knew it was going to be
coordinated from halfway around the world.
The challenge with finding locations
for the Gospel accounts
is that they need to look like ancient lands
but be placed in a modern world.
They need to have no signs of civilization
and yet be close enough to civilization
to support our modern filming operations.
You’re asked to flesh out an entire world,
a culture,
and hundreds or,
actually, thousands
of characters that appear in these accounts
and to do so with very limited information
actually in the Bible.
How do we add enough details
to connect with the audience
but do so without overstepping
by introducing teachings
or ideas that contradict
the Bible’s message?
We can truly say it was a worldwide effort
on the part of our brothers and sisters.
It was especially encouraging
to see how young ones
responded to this need.
They were looking to extend themselves
in their service to Jehovah,
and they were willing
to adjust their secular jobs.
They were willing to move
to other locations in order to be able
to support this project.
We were looking at how we could
accomplish so many auditions
in a shorter period of time.
So we came up with the idea
of a self-guided audition
where we put a package together
identifying how the audition needs
to be accomplished and we send it
to the publisher that’s being auditioned,
and they record their own audition
and send it back to us for processing.
While we were at some of the locations,
we actually did test filming.
We put actors in wardrobe in front
of the camera and re-created certain scenes
to see how this location
could be used for our project.
We were able to travel to more than
a dozen locations during a month,
and everyone returned happy and healthy.
There are some accounts in the Gospels
that reference large groups,
such as the Sermon on the Mount
and when Jesus preached from the boat.
How would we show that many people?
The team took time to test various methods,
including some computer graphics
as well as different styles
and methods to be used
to duplicate people
for these large crowds.
The production team was able to see
what did and did not work,
and this is very beneficial because it helps
us to plan appropriately
for the actual production day.
And so it’s simply a matter
of going and doing
as much research as possible
to find out what is known.
And, of course,
there’s an entire team
devoted to doing research
for our publications.
And we have access
to those brothers and sisters.
Something that has been
incredibly valuable for every screenwriter
on this project is to see
members of the Teaching Committee
sit at every table read for each script
and then proceed to give us direction,
ask questions, give us direction
on what to go and research further,
what to remove, and (in many cases)
what to add.
It shows how deeply they’re
invested in the story of Jesus’ life.
It felt like Jehovah
had taken us and placed us
into a land thousands of years ago.
When we got to these various locations,
we literally would
jump out of the vehicles
and run across the landscape
in excitement for how
we could potentially use them.
One of the biggest challenges we had
was getting everyone back into the vehicles
so that we could go on to the next location.
We went to one property, and when
we talked with the brother,
he said: “This isn’t my property.
“This belongs to Jehovah.
“I’m holding onto it (I’m not sure why),
hoping that perhaps Jehovah
can use it in some way.”
And when you think
about all of our brothers and sisters
coming together to support this initiative,
it really has been a blessing
to be able to witness that.
It really reminds me of what is said
at Psalm 133:1,
where it said it would be “good”
to see brothers and sisters
‘dwelling together in unity.’
And we’ve seen that goodness.
We’ve seen our brotherhood really
rally around supporting this project
in so many ways.
And it has contributed toward
a spirit that has allowed Jehovah
to bless the work.
Would you like to see how the design
and construction aspects
of the work are progressing,
including the historical sets?
Well, one of the biggest challenges we’ve had
in the Design/Construction world
is to get the mentality
that we’re designing
and building something
that needs to look 2,000 years old.
Now, we’re used to building modern buildings,
and we’re used to using the materials
that we have today,
but to now use those
to provide something that was ancient,
that was going
to be quite the challenge.
In Jesus’ ministry,
he went to numerous different towns,
and those towns
would have had different looks
because of the natural products
that were available to the tradesmen then
to build those buildings.
Back in ancient Israel,
the building materials would have been stone,
so they would have used limestone, basalt,
field stones,
and even clay bricks.
There’s probably
just over 100 doors and gates out there.
There are also over 200 windows,
and we’ve got shutters,
and all of these need
either timber lintels or timber sills.
You have tradesmen
who are used to getting things,
you could say, nearly perfect.
Normally as a renderer, or a plasterer,
you would cover up cracks,
but here we’re having
to actually create these.
That can be quite a challenge.
Back a few years ago,
there were various branches
that were put forward as possibilities,
as options.
And in the end,
the Australasia branch was chosen.
At that time
in the Design/Construction world,
we thought,
‘Well, that was an interesting choice.’
But during 2020, during the pandemic,
we found out in retrospect
that it was one
of the only places on earth
where this project could be completed now.
Because of the low incidence
of COVID in the country,
we were able to use outside contractors
to come in to the project
to do part of the site work for us.
So it’s been a blessing to have
the project take place
at this location.
Those that we had on-site here
already were very
open-minded,
and they had a lot of creative thinking
when it came to building historical
sets now with modern materials.
So we have about 7,000 square meters
of render to accomplish,
and we’ll have two teams working full-time
for several months to accomplish this.
In this particular type of work,
nobody’s trade really counted;
everybody had to try.
And many of our sisters, in fact,
were the ones that had the skills
that were needed to create
the historical effect that was required.
To achieve the weathering
that would happen on the stone
if it sat there for hundreds of years
out in the weather—
The water would get into the stone
and slowly break it down.
So then there are going to be areas
of the stone that are softer,
so they’ll wear away quicker.
So then that’s done with the wire brush.
And then some spots with the acetone,
it puts little divots into the stone,
which occur naturally in limestone.
Once the project is completed in the backlot,
the brothers and sisters will have applied
up to four and a half thousand square meters
of stone finish to the buildings.
It’s been amazing to see how
with a variety of backgrounds (despite this),
they’ve been able to achieve
quite amazing things
with just their willing spirit,
prepared to take
on board the instruction.
And we can see Jehovah’s blessing behind it.
In the temple area, in the backlot,
there are a little over 4,000 square meters
of concrete that has been made
to look like stone.
Well, one of the contractors who quoted
on the job was actually a brother.
And that particular brother said:
“Well, you know what?
“I can volunteer to do this.
“And there are enough brothers around
that we can bring together,
and we would be more than happy
to be able to do it on a volunteer basis.”
So an isolated area was set up where
these brothers could
test and sample and produce
the concrete that was needed
for the floor finish of the temple.
So for over 27 days of straight pours,
we had approximately 30 brothers and sisters
each day come in and work tirelessly
to be able to accomplish
this temple floor for us.
The last day of the concrete pour,
we wanted to surprise the brothers,
because someone had made
a sign saying: “United in spirit.”
But actually,
the construction Bethelites surprised us.
They all had balloons and signs,
and it spelled out “Thank you.”
I think that just reflected
how we love each other
and how we’d give our life for each other
because we both serve the same God
and we love Jehovah.
Through lots of sleepless nights
and a bit of prayer about it,
we ended up finding a brother
who owned a sawmill and had property
with trees on it,
and he willingly chopped down the trees
on his property
and provided them for us
—delivered them to site
and actually donated them to us.
And they were exactly what we needed.
We also had specific prayers
at certain times about certain matters,
and then 30 minutes later,
we’d receive answers.
That definitely also is no coincidence.
And then obviously getting
the right approvals just at the right time
despite objections—we know
that there’s no one else other than
Jehovah that could have a hand in that.
So it’s obvious that Satan has put
everything he can in front of us,
but Jehovah has provided every time
at the right time.
It’s no coincidence that his hand
has been on this,
and there is no doubt that he
wants people to know about his Son, Jesus.
Seeing the collaboration in our
monthly meetings
with the entire team where we have
the World Headquarters Legal Department,
the World Headquarters Computer Department,
we have the Purchasing Department,
we have Design/Construction,
we have the Regional Video Teams,
we have Audio/Video Services
—all of these groups
along with the branch in Australasia—
working together for a common goal
as a team
has been amazing
and a very faith-strengthening experience.
We were happy to share this update with you.
But you might still be wondering:
‘How are actors being prepared to reach
our hearts through their performance?
‘How will the tone and filming style
be selected to represent
the Gospel accounts?’
And maybe the biggest question you have is,
When will cameras start rolling?
Stay tuned for a future update.
Imagine the powerful impact
this video series will have on people!
It will help you and me
follow Jesus’ footsteps closely.
It will help us draw closer to Jehovah,
whom Jesus
perfectly imitated as a human.
But the benefits go far beyond you and me.
As stated in the 2020 annual meeting,
it is likely that this series will be used
to touch the hearts and minds
of billions of resurrected ones
in the coming new world.
Just think how
this video series could help them
learn about the example that Jesus set.
Imagine how the visual portrayal
of his warm, humble,
and approachable personality
will help them
to come to know Jehovah intimately.
How exactly will we use this new series
to teach resurrected ones?
We will have to wait and see
what Jehovah directs.
We are confident Jehovah
is blessing this work.
And we will continue
to look to Jehovah for direction
as we move ahead
with The Good News According to Jesus.